Introduction
 
Schizophrenia is a highly heritable complex psychiatric disorder characterized by the deficits in the behavior and cognitive abilities, which afflicts approximately one percent of the global population (Owen et al., 2016). The chronic nature of the disease with multiple relapses makes schizophrenia one of the leading causes of disability among the mental disorders, contributing to substantial socioeconomic burden (Chong et al., 2016; Emsley et al., 2013). Mounting evidences have supported the concerted interaction of genetic and environmental factors affecting the neural development and plasticity for the etiopathogenesis of schizophrenia (Birnbaum and Weinberger, 2017). Additionally, the neural circuit dysfunctions; such as abnormalities in the dopaminergic signaling, imbalance between excitation and inhibition (glutamate-GABA system), deficits in synaptic plasticity, and disruptions in local and long-range synchrony has also been attributed for the manifestation of the psychotic symptoms (Sigurdsson, 2016). Although the heritability estimates ranges to 80% (Hilker et al., 2017; Sullivan et al., 2003), the studies that attempted to delineate the genetic component of schizophrenia liability, could not define a unitary mechanism for the pathophysiology due to substantial polygenic component (Giegling et al., 2017; Gratten et al., 2014). On the other hand, epidemiological data have shown an increased risk of schizophrenia in offspring, whose mothers experienced prenatal insults such as starvation, malnutrition, and maternal infection, supporting the role of early life neurodevelopmental defects (Alan S. Brown and Elena J. Derkits, 2010; St Clair et al., 2005; Susser et al., 1996; Susser and Lin, 1992). Furthermore, pharmacological effect of dopamine receptor antagonists in curbing positive symptoms and psychotogenic activity of NMDA receptor antagonists upholds the neurotransmitter dysfunction (Howes and Kapur, 2009; Nakazawa et al., 2017). Interestingly, recent large scale genetic studies have concurred with these evidences, where many schizophrenia associated genes were enriched for neurodevelopmental and neurotransmitter functions. In vitro and in vivo experimental studies have widely modelled these dysfunctions to understand the molecular and cellular pathophysiology of schizophrenia (Kanyuch and Anderson, 2017). However, mechanistic understanding of disease pathogenesis has been largely limited by the inherent 
